In recent years, deep learning has revolutionized both machine learning and computer vision. Many classical computer vision tasks, which traditionally were very challenging,
can now be solved using supervised deep learning techniques. While supervised learning is a powerful tool when labeled data is available and the task under consideration has a well-defined output, these conditions are not always satisfied. One promising approach in this case is given by generative modeling. In contrast to purely discriminative models, generative models can deal with uncertainty and learn powerful models even if labeled training data is not available. However, while current approaches to generative modeling achieve promising results, they suffer from two aspects that limit their expressiveness: (i) some of the most successful approaches to modeling image data are no longer trained using optimization algorithms, but instead employ algorithms whose dynamics are not well understood and (ii) generative models are often limited by the memory requirements of the output representation. 
In this talk I give an overview over my PhD thesis where I address both problems.
In the first part of the talk, we introduce a theory which enables us to better understand the training dynamics of Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs), one of the most promising approaches to generative modeling. We tackle this problem by introducing minimal example problems of GAN training which can be understood analytically. Subsequently, we gradually increase the complexity of these examples. By doing so, we gain new insights into the training dynamics of GANs and derive new regularizers that also work well for general GANs. Our new regularizers enable us - for the first time - to train a GAN at one megapixel resolution without having to gradually increase the resolution of  the training distribution. In the second part of the talk we consider output representations in 3D for generative models and 3D reconstruction techniques. By introducing implicit representations to deep learning, we are able to extend many techniques that work in 2D to the 3D domain without sacrificing their expressiveness.
